The President:
On Tuesday, after
more than seven years,
the United States of America
will end its combat mission in
Iraq and take an important step
forward in responsibly ending
the Iraq war.
As a candidate for this office,
I pledged I would end this war.
As President, that's
what I'm doing.
I brought home more than 90,000 troops since I took office.
We have closed or turned over
to Iraq hundreds of bases.
In many parts of the country,
Iraqis have already taken the
lead for security.
In the months ahead, our troops
will continue to support and
train Iraqi forces, partner
with Iraqis in counterterrorism
missions, and protect our
civilians and military efforts.
But the bottom line is
this: the war is ending.
Like any sovereign,
independent nation,
Iraq is free to
chart its own course.
And by the end of next year,
all of our troops will be home.
As we mark the end of America's
combat mission in Iraq,
a grateful nation must pay
tribute to all who have served there.
Because part of responsibly
ending this war is meeting our
responsibility to those
who have fought it.
The wars in Iraq and Afghanistan
now make up America's longest
continuous combat engagement.
For the better part of a decade,
our troops and their families
have served tour after tour
with honor and heroism,
risking and often giving their
lives for the defense of our
freedom and security.
More than one million Americans
in uniform have served in Iraq
-- far more than any
conflict since Vietnam.
And more than one million who
have served in both wars have
now finished their service
and joined the proud ranks of
America's veterans.
What this new generation of
veterans must know is this: our
nation's commitment to all who
wear its uniform is a sacred
trust that is as old
as our republic itself.
It is one that, as President, I
consider a moral obligation to uphold.
At the same time, these are
new wars; with new missions,
new methods, and new perils.
And what today's
veterans have earned --
what they have every
right to expect --
is new care, new opportunity,
and a new commitment to their
service when they come home.
That's why, from the earliest
days of my Administration,
we've been strengthening that
sacred trust with our veterans
by making our veterans policy
more responsive and ready for
this new century.
We're building a
21st century VA,
modernizing and expanding VA
hospitals and health care,
and adapting care to better
meet the unique needs of female veterans.
We're creating a single
electronic health record that
our troops and veterans
can keep for life.
We're breaking the claims
backlog and reforming the
process with new
paperless systems.
And we're building new wounded
warrior facilities through the
Department of Defense.
But for many of our
troops and their families,
the war doesn't end
when they come home.
Too many suffer from Traumatic
Brain Injury and Post-Traumatic
Stress Disorder -- the signature injuries of today's wars --
and too few receive
proper screening or care.
Well, we're changing that.
We're directing significant
resources to treatment,
hiring more mental
health professionals,
and making major investments
in awareness, outreach,
and suicide prevention.
And we're making it easier
for a vet with PTSD to get the
benefits he or she needs.
To make sure our
troops, veterans,
and their families have full
access to the American Dreams
they've fought to defend, we're
working to extend them new opportunity.
Michelle and Jill Biden have
forged a national commitment to
support military families
while a loved one is away.
We've guaranteed new support to
caregivers who put their lives
on hold for a loved
one's long recovery.
We're funding and implementing
the Post-9/11 GI Bill,
which is already helping some 300,000 veterans and their
family members pursue their dream of a college education.
And for veterans trying to find
work in a very tough economy,
we've devoted new resources to
job training and placement.
I've directed the federal
government to hire more
veterans, including
disabled veterans,
and I encourage every business
in America to follow suit.
This new generation of veterans
has proven itself to be a new
generation of leaders.
They have unmatched training and
skills; they're ready to work;
and our country is stronger
when we tap their extraordinary talents.
New care.
New opportunity.
A new commitment
to our veterans.
If you'd like to send our troops
and veterans a message of thanks
and support, just
visit whitehouse.gov.
There, you'll find an easy way
to upload your own text or video.
Let them know that they have
the respect and support of a
grateful nation.
That when their tour ends;
when they see our flag;
when they touch our soil;
they'll always be home in an
America that is forever
here for them --
just as they've
been there for us.
That's the promise our nation
makes to those who serve.
And as long as I'm
Commander-in-Chief,
it's a promise we will keep.
Thank you.